---
title: Changelog
description: Get to know the latest changes and updates to the plugin.
---

## Where to Find the Latest Version?

If you have installed the plugin via Composer, you can update it by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
composer update
```

If you have downloaded the plugin as a ZIP file, you can download the latest version from the [releases page](https://github.com/kirby-tools/kirby-live-preview/releases) on GitHub.

## What's New?

### v2.3.2 :u-badge{label="Latest" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

Released on April 6, 2025.

**ðŸž Bug Fixes**

- Add compatibility with Kirby 5.0.0-beta.5.

### v2.3.1

Released on April 4, 2025.

**ðŸž Bug Fixes**

- If a device preview is smaller than the preview section, prevent scaling it.

### v2.3.0

Released on April 2, 2025.

**ðŸš€ Features**

::preview{src="/img/kirby-live-preview-buttons.png"}
::

- New button to open previews in a **new tab**.
- Device dimensions buttons to simulate different screen widths. The height is fixed at 100% of the preview section. The available devices are:
  - Mobile: 390px
  - Tablet: 768px
  - Desktop: 1440px

### v2.2.0

Released on January 24, 2025.

**ðŸž Bug Fixes**

- Unsaved content from site-level fields is now rendered in the preview.

### v2.1.0

Released on January 20, 2025.

**ðŸš€ Features**

- New [`pageId`](/docs/live-preview/configuration#pageid) section property to preview a page other than the current one.
- Improved section height calculation for sticky previews when scrolling.

### v2.0.0

Released on December 20, 2024.

Kirby Live Preview v2 is a major release with support for Kirby 5. This major release requires a new license key. If you already have a license, you will receive either a free upgrade to v2 or a 50% discount on your new license. Head over to the [Kirby Tools Hub](https://hub.kirby.tools) to get your discount or read more in the [license compatibility guide](https://kirby.tools/license-compatibility).

**ðŸš€ Features**

- Support for Kirby 5.

### v1.5.0

Released on November 15, 2024.

**ðŸš€ Features**

- New [`updateStrategy`](/docs/live-preview/configuration#updatestrategy) to control the preview update behavior. If set to `blur`, the preview is updated when any Kirby text-like, number-like, or blocks field loses focus.

To change the default strategy from `interval` to `blur`, set the `updateStrategy` property in your blueprint:

```yaml [sections/live-preview.yml]
type: preview
updateStrategy: blur
```

### v1.3.0

Released on June 18, 2024.

**ðŸš€ Features**

- New license management that allows activating licenses directly in the Panel.
- Deprecated the private Composer repository in favor of Packagist.

### v1.2.0

Released on March 25, 2024.

**ðŸš€ Features**

- Change rendering frequency with the [`updateInterval`](/docs/live-preview/configuration#updateinterval) option or disable it completely.

**ðŸž Bug Fixes**

- Saving with `Cmd + S` now works correctly when the focus is on the preview frame.

### v1.1.0

Released on March 24, 2024.

**ðŸš€ Features**

- Resolve permalinks in `writer` fields to redirect links to the corresponding Panel page.
- Support detecting the [preview mode in the frontend](/docs/live-preview/preview-mode#frontend) with the `data-preview-mode` attribute in CSS and JavaScript:

  ```css [assets/css/main.css]
  [data-preview-mode] .cookie-banner {
    display: none;
  }
  ```

  ```js [assets/js/main.js]
  const isPreviewMode = document.documentElement.dataset.previewMode === "true";
  ```

- Support [preview mode detection in the backend](/docs/live-preview/preview-mode#backend) with the `previewMode` content key:

  ```php [site/snippets/footer.php]
  $isPreviewMode = $page->previewMode()->isTrue();
  ```

### v1.0.3

Released on March 22, 2024.

- Initial release of the Kirby Live Preview plugin.
