---
title: Custom Translator Functions
description: Use custom translation services or define your own translation logic.
---

Define a custom translation function to use a different translation service or implement your own translation logic. This allows you to integrate any translation API or service that suits your needs, cache translations, or apply custom translation rules.

::warning
For improved performance, texts are sent to DeepL in [batches for translation](https://developers.deepl.com/api-reference/translate#translating-large-volumes-of-text) by default. However, a custom translation function will disable this batch translation and translate texts individually. This significantly slows down the translation process!
::

## Translator Callback

To use a custom translation service, you can define a `translateFn` in your plugin configuration. This function should accept the text to be translated, the target language code, and optionally the source language code. It should return the translated text as a string.

```php [config.php]
return [
    'johannschopplich.content-translator' => [
        'translateFn' => function (string $text, string $toLanguageCode, string|null $fromLanguageCode = null): string {
            // Implement your custom translation logic here
            return myCustomTranslateFunction($text, $toLanguageCode, $fromLanguageCode);
        }
    ]
];
```

## Custom Target Language with DeepL

In certain cases, a language code defined in Kirby might not match the language code expected by the translation service.

For example, you may have defined `en` as a language code in your Kirby installation, but you want to translate to either **British English** (`en-GB`) or **American English** (`en-US`). DeepL recommends to [specify the target English variant](https://developers.deepl.com/docs/resources/supported-languages#target-languages) to improve the translation quality:

> `EN` - English (unspecified variant for backward compatibility; please select `EN-GB` or `EN-US` instead)

::note
With Kirby Content Translator v3.3, the target language for DeepL will now be resolved based on the `LC_ALL` locale (if available). However, this will only work if the resulting language code is supported by DeepL.

For your example, if you set your `LC_ALL` locale to `en_GB`, then DeepL will receive `EN-GB` as the target language.
::

For all other cases, use the custom translator function to map language codes on the fly:

```php [config.php]
use JohannSchopplich\ContentTranslator\DeepL;

return [
    'johannschopplich.content-translator' => [
        'translateFn' => function (string $text, string $toLanguageCode, string|null $fromLanguageCode = null): string {
            // Translate all English content to British English
            if ($toLanguageCode === 'en') {
                $toLanguageCode = 'en-gb';
            }

            $deepL = new DeepL();
            return $deepL->translate($text, $toLanguageCode, $fromLanguageCode);
        }
    ]
];
```
