---
title: SEO Checks
description: Pick from 30+ different SEO assessments to include in the SEO report.
---

## Overview

Currently, Kirby SEO Audit comes with 30 different SEO checks that can be included in the SEO report:

- 27 assessments are based on the [`yoastseo`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/yoastseo) JavaScript package, which is part of the official [Yoast SEO for WordPress](https://yoast.com/wordpress/plugins/seo/) plugin.
- 3 assessments are provided by the Kirby SEO Audit plugin.

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
We are working on adding more assessments that don't rely on Yoast SEO's analysis. If you have any suggestions what to add, please [let us know](/contact).
::

### Kirby SEO Audit Assessments

The following assessments are provided by the Kirby SEO Audit plugin:

- **Alt attribute**: Checks whether all images have an `alt` attribute.
- **Single H1**: Checks whether the content contains a H1 heading.
- **Heading structure order**: Checks whether the headings (H1 to H6) follow a proper sequential order.

### Yoast SEO Assessments

Kirby SEO Audit uses Yoast SEO's default metrics and provides its own methods for calculating title length, for example. The following scores are available:

- Flesch Reading Ease
- Paragraph Too Long
- Passive Voice
- Sentence Beginnings
- Sentence Length in Description
- Sentence Length in Text
- Subheading Distribution Too Long
- Text Presence
- Transition Words
- Word Complexity
- Function Words in Keyphrase
- Internal Links
- Introduction Keyword
- Keyphrase Length
- Keyword Density
- Keyword Stop Words
- Keyphrase Distribution
- Meta Description Keyword
- Meta Description Length
- Outbound Links
- Page Title Width
- Subheadings Keyword
- Text Competing Links
- Text Images
- Text Length
- Title Keyword
- Url Keyword

## Custom Reports

By default, all assessments are enabled. Pick which assessments to include in the SEO report by adding a `assessments` field to the page's options in the blueprint:

```yaml [sections/seo-audit.yml]
type: seo-audit
assessments:
  - PageTitleWidth
  - TextImages
  - TextLength
```

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
Assessment names are case-sensitive and must be written in pascal case. For example, the _Meta Description Length_ assessment is written as `MetaDescriptionLength`.
::

## Keyword/Keyphrase Field

If no [`keyphraseField`](/docs/get-started/configuration#keyphrasefield) is defined or the field is empty, all keyphrase assessments will be skipped, unless you explicitly enable them in the `assessments` property.

The following assessments require a keyphrase to be defined:

- Function Words in Keyphrase
- Introduction Keyword
- Keyphrase Length
- Keyword Density
- Keyphrase Distribution
- Meta Description Keyword
- Subheadings Keyword
- Title Keyword
- Url Keyword

## Features per Language

Some assessments are only available in certain languages. For example, the `Flesch Reading Ease` assessment is available in English and German, but not in Norwegian or Swedish.

When running an SEO audit, the plugin will use the [language selected in the Kirby Panel](/docs/guide/audit-url). This can be either the primary language or one of the translations.

Make sure that the language code set in your `languages/xx.php` file matches the language code used by the plugin. For example, if you use `ita` as the language code for Italian, the plugin will not be able to use the correct assessments. Instead, use the ISO 639-1 language code such as `it`.

The following table shows which assessments are available for each language:

| Assessment             | Supported Languages                                                                |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Word Complexity        | DE, EN, ES, FR                                                                     |
| Keyphrase Distribution | AR, CS, DE, EL, EN, ES, FR, HE, HU, ID, IT, JA, NL, NO, PL, PT, RU, SK, SV, TR     |
| Sentence Length        | AR, CS, DE, EL, EN, ES, FA, FR, HE, HU, ID, IT, JA, NL, NO, PL, PT, RU, SK, SV, TR |
| Passive Voice          | AR, CS, DE, EL, EN, ES, FA, FR, HE, HU, ID, IT, NL, NO, PL, PT, RU, SK, SV, TR     |
| Transition Words       | AR, CA, CS, DE, EL, EN, ES, FA, FR, HE, HU, ID, IT, NL, NO, PL, PT, RU, SK, SV, TR |
| Function Words         | AR, CS, DE, EL, EN, ES, FA, FR, HE, HU, ID, IT, JA, NL, NO, PL, PT, RU, SK, SV, TR |
| Flesch Reading Ease    | DE, EN, ES, FR, IT, NL, PT, RU                                                     |

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
If the language is not supported by the assessment, the plugin will throw an error. To avoid this, make sure to only enable assessments that are supported by the selected language.
::
