---
title: Migration
description: Follow this guide to migrate from the v1 version of the plugin to the v2 version.
---

## Migrating from v2.x to v2.5

Some users experienced issues with fields where the field content is HTML (e.g. in a `writer` field). With Kirby Content Translator v2.5, every request to the DeepL API is now sent with the `tag_handling` parameter set to `html`. This should fix the issue with HTML content not being translated correctly.

If you experience problems with this new default, you can disable it by setting the `tag_handling` option to `null` in the global configuration:

```php [config.php]
return [
    'johannschopplich.content-translator' => [
        'DeepL' => [
            'requestOptions' => [
                // Disable the `tag_handling` parameter
                'tag_handling' => null
            ]
        ]
    ]
];
```

## Migrating from v1 to v2

The Kirby Content Translator v2 is a major overhaul in terms of architecture and features. This guide will help you migrate your existing projects from the v1 version of the plugin to the v2 version.

::card{icon="i-ri-settings-3-line" to="/docs/content-translator/configuration"}

**Configuration**<br>
A comprehensive guide to all the available configuration options for the Content Translator section.
::

### New Configuration Options

While the v1 version relied on parameters like `syncableFields`, `translatableFields`, `translatableStructureFields`, etc., the v2 version introduces a more streamlined approach to managing translatable content. The new version uses a single `fieldTypes` property to define the fields types that should be translated.

By default, the following field types are supported and enabled:

- `blocks`
- `layout`
- `list`
- `object`
- `structure`
- `tags`
- `text`
- `textarea`
- `writer`
- `markdown`

If you want to limit the translation to specific field types, you can use the `fieldTypes` property.

To include or exclude specific fields, you can use the `includeFields` and `excludeFields` properties. Both are empty by default. Note that if at least one entry is defined in `includeFields`, only these fields will be translated. Respectively, if at least one entry is defined in `excludeFields`, all fields except these will be translated.

For example, if you want to translate your whole content, except the `company` field name, you can use the following configuration:

```yaml [sections/content-translator.yml]
type: content-translator
excludeFields:
  - description
  - summary
```

### Removed Properties

The following section properties have been removed in the v2 version in favor of the new `fieldTypes`, `includeFields`, and `excludeFields` properties:

- `syncableFields`
- `translatableFields`
- `translatableStructureFields`
- `translatableObjectFields`
- `translatableBlocks`

### PHP API

Since the PHP API is new in the v2 version, there is no need to migrate any existing PHP code.
