---
title: Configuration
description: Learn which blueprint properties you can use to configure the SEO Insights section.
---

Kirby SEO Audit doesn't require any global configuration. All aspects of the plugin can be configured on a per-section basis. For specific use cases, such as running Kirby inside Docker containers, you can adjust the [proxy configuration](#proxy) globally.

## Section Properties

### `label` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

The `label` property defines the label of the section. It is provided by the plugin translations based on the current Panel language.

If you want to change the label, you can do so by setting the `label` property:

```yaml [sections/seo-audit.yml]
type: seo-audit
label: SEO Report
```

### `keyphraseField` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

If you want to include keyword/keyphrase assessments in your SEO analysis, you need to define a field in your blueprint that contains the keyphrase for the given page (or use the [`keyphrase`](#keyphrase) property, see below). The editor can then **enter the keyword or keyphrase for which he wants the page to rank in Google.**

Set the `keyphraseField` property to select which field of the current page model contains the keyphrase.

```yaml [pages/default.yml]
sections:
  content:
    type: fields
    fields:
      # Define the keyphrase field
      metaKeywords:
        label: Meta Keywords
        type: text
  seoAudit:
    type: seo-audit
    # Reference the keyphrase field
    keyphraseField: metaKeywords
```

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
If no `keyphraseField` is defined, all keyphrase assessments will be skipped, unless you explicitly enable them in the `assessments` property.
::

### `keyphrase` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

If you don't want the editor to enter a keyphrase manually, you can set a default keyphrase for SEO analysis or use a **Kirby query** to resolve the keyphrase dynamically.

For example, this is useful to automatically use the page title as the keyphrase:

```yaml [sections/seo-audit.yml]
type: seo-audit
keyphrase: "{{ page.title.value }}"
```

### `synonymsField` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

Add synonyms to your keyphrase to avoid repeating the same keyphrase over and over again. Not only will readers like this, but it will also help Google to better understand what your content is about.

Set the `synonymsField` property to select which field of the current page model contains the synonyms.

```yaml [pages/default.yml]
sections:
  content:
    type: fields
    fields:
      metaKeywords:
        label: Meta Keywords
        type: text
      synonyms:
        label: Keyword Synonyms
        type: tags
  seoAudit:
    type: seo-audit
    keyphraseField: metaKeywords
    synonymsField: synonyms
```

### `synonyms` :u-badge{label="Array" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

Just like the `keyphrase` property as an alternative to the `keyphraseField`, you can set the `synonyms` property directly in the blueprint. This allows you to define synonyms directly in the blueprint without the need for a separate field for an editor to fill in.

```yaml [sections/seo-audit.yml]
type: seo-audit
keyphrase: "{{ page.title.value }}"
synonyms:
  - Kirby
  - SEO
  - Audit
```

### `assessments` :u-badge{label="Array" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

Kirby SEO Audit comes with a set of assessments that are used to analyze the content of a page. You can enable or disable individual assessments by setting the `assessments` property. By default, all assessments are enabled.

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
For a list of available SEO checks, see the [Assessments Guide](/docs/guide/assessments) page.
::

An example configuration that only includes a subset of assessments:

```yaml [sections/seo-audit.yml]
type: seo-audit
assessments:
  # Select the assessments you want to include
  - MetaDescriptionKeyword
  - MetaDescriptionLength
  - PageTitleWidth
  - TextImages
  - TextLength
```

### `contentSelector` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

The `contentSelector` property allows you to define a CSS selector to select the content of the page that should be analyzed. This is useful if you want to exclude certain parts of the page from the SEO analysis, such as the header, footer or sidebar.

By default, the plugin uses the `body` tag to select the content of the page. If you want to analyze only the content of a specific element, you can set the `contentSelector` property:

```yaml [sections/seo-audit.yml]
type: seo-audit
contentSelector: "#main:not(.sidebar):not(.footer)"
```

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
The `contentSelector` also supports querying for multiple elements. For example, to select all elements with the class `.seo-audit-allowed` but exclude elements certain elements with the class `.seo-audit-ignore`, you can use the following selector: `.seo-audit-allowed > *:not(.seo-audit-ignore)`.
::

To debug which content is used for the SEO analysis, you can set the log level to `info` or higher. This will log the extracted HTML to the console:

```yaml [sections/seo-audit.yml]
type: seo-audit
contentSelector: ".seo-audit-allowed > *:not(.seo-audit-ignore)"
logLevel: info
```

### `links` :u-badge{label="Boolean" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

The analysis paper contains recommendation links to articles on [yoast.com](https://yoast.com) that explain the individual assessments in more detail. While these links can be helpful, you may want to disable them for privacy reasons or because you don't want to distract the editor.

Set the `links` property to `false` to disable any links in the SEO report:

```yaml [sections/seo-audit.yml]
type: seo-audit
links: false
```

### `persisted` :u-badge{label="Boolean" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

Decide if the audit should be saved to local storage or not. By default, the generated SEO report will be saved to (and read from) the local storage of the browser. This allows the editor to close the panel and return to the SEO audit later without having to re-run the analysis.

To disable persisting the analysis, set the `persisted` property to `false`:

```yaml [sections/seo-audit.yml]
type: seo-audit
persisted: false
```

## Global Configuration

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
In most cases, i.e. for traditional Kirby sites, you don't need to configure anything globally.
::

### `proxy` :u-badge{label="Array" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

The proxy API path is used to fetch the HTML content of the page if the preview URL is not on the same origin as the Panel. This is necessary to avoid CORS issues.

#### `urlResolver` :u-badge{label="Callable" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

The `urlResolver` property accepts a callable that is used to resolve the URL of the proxy API. This is useful if you run Kirby inside Docker containers and need to resolve the URL to the host machine:

```php [config.php]
'johannschopplich.seo-audit' => [
    'proxy' => [
        'urlResolver' => function (string $url) {
            $uri = new \Kirby\Http\Uri($url);

            if ($uri->domain() === 'http://127.0.0.1:3000') {
                $uri->setHost('host.docker.internal');
            }

            return $uri->toString();
        }
    ]
]
```

#### `params` :u-badge{label="Array" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

Any parameter supported by Kirby's [`Remote::request()`](https://getkirby.com/docs/reference/objects/http/remote/request#params-array) method can be passed to the proxy API. This is useful if you need to authenticate against the preview URL:

```php [config.php]
'johannschopplich.seo-audit' => [
    'proxy' => [
        'params' => [
            'basicAuth' => 'user:password'
        ]
    ]
]
```
