---
title: Configuration
description: All the blueprint configuration properties for the Content Translator section.
---

The Kirby Content Translator empowers editors to copy content from one language to another and translate content of fields. This page describes all the available configuration options for the Content Translator section to help you set up the plugin according to your needs.

## Section Properties

### `label` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

The `label` property allows you to define a custom label for the Content Translator section. The default value depends on the language of the Panel. For English, the default label is `Content Translator`.

To set a custom label for the plugin section, use the `label` property in your blueprint:

```yaml [sections/content-translator.yml]
type: content-translator
label: Translation Helper
```

### `fieldTypes` :u-badge{label="Array" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

This is one of the core section properties. By default, the plugin imports or translates all text-like fields: `list`, `tags`, `text`, `textarea`, and `writer`. These fields can be nested in `blocks`, `layout`, `object`, and `structure` fields.

If you want to limit the translation to specific field types, you can use the `fieldTypes` property. The following field types are supported (and enabled by default):

- `blocks`
- `layout`
- `list`
- `object`
- `structure`
- `tags`
- `text`
- `textarea`
- `writer`

To only translate `text` and `textarea` fields, use the following configuration:

```yaml [sections/content-translator.yml]
type: content-translator
fieldTypes:
  - text
  - textarea
```

However, `text` fields inside `blocks` for example will not be imported or translated with this configuration, because the `blocks` field type is not included. To translate fields within blocks, you need to add the `blocks` field type to the `fieldTypes` array:

```yaml [sections/content-translator.yml]
type: content-translator
fieldTypes:
  - blocks
  - text
  - textarea
```

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
When `translate: false` is set on a field, it will be ignored by the translation process, regardless of the `fieldTypes` configuration.
::

### `includeFields` :u-badge{label="Array" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

The `includeFields` property allows you to specify a list of fields that should be imported or translated. This property is useful if you want to translate only specific fields, either nested or not. The `fieldTypes` property is still respected.

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
When using the `includeFields` property, all fields are filtered by their key. The key is case-insensitive, meaning that `text` and `Text` are treated as the same field.
::

To translate only the `company` and `author` fields, use the following configuration:

```yaml [sections/content-translator.yml]
type: content-translator
includeFields:
  - company
  - author
```

### `excludeFields` :u-badge{label="Array" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

Similar to the `includeFields` property, the `excludeFields` property allows you to specify a list of fields that should not be imported or translated. This property is useful if you want to exclude specific fields from the translation process when excluding a field type is not sufficient.

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
If a field already has the `translate: false` option set, it will be ignored by the translation process. You can skip the `excludeFields` configuration for these fields.
::

To exclude the `description` and `summary` fields from the translation, use the following configuration:

```yaml [sections/content-translator.yml]
type: content-translator
excludeFields:
  - description
  - summary
```

### `import` :u-badge{label="Boolean" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

If the importing of content to any page should be disabled, you can set the `import` property to `false`. This will hide the import button in the section.

```yaml [sections/content-translator.yml]
type: content-translator
import: false
```

With the disabled `import` feature (and `bulk` feature for the sake if the screenshot), the section will look like this for a secondary language:

::preview{src="/img/kirby-content-translator-section-no-import.png"}
::

### `importFrom` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
With the default plugin configuration, the import process will only allow copying content from the default language to secondary languages. Not the other way around. This protects the content of the default language from being overwritten. That's why in the default language only the **{Language} → All Languages** button is rendered:

<br>
<br>

::preview{src="/img/kirby-content-translator-section.png"}
::

<br>
<br>

(If you have disabled the [`bulk` translation feature](#bulk), the Panel section will indicate that importing from secondary languages is disabled:)

<br>
<br>

::preview{src="/img/kirby-content-translator-section-bulk-disabled.png"}
::

::

To allow overwriting content of the default language by importing from a secondary language, you can set the `importFrom` property to `all`. This will enable you to import content from the secondary language to the default language:

```yaml [sections/content-translator.yml]
type: content-translator
importFrom: all
```

The button text will change slightly to indicate that importing from secondary languages is allowed:

::preview{src="/img/kirby-content-translator-section-import-all.png"}
::

::callout{icon="i-ri-error-warning-line" color="amber"}
This feature is disabled by default to prevent accidental overwriting of content. Use this feature with caution.
::

### `bulk` :u-badge{label="Boolean" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

Kirby Content Translator v2.3.0+ allows you to translate the content of a given site, page or file model into all secondary languages in bulk. This means that you can now not only translate content per language, but also for all secondary languages at once: the content of all secondary languages is overwritten with the data of the default language and then translated into the respective language.

This option is only active for the default language:

::preview{src="/img/kirby-content-translator-section.png"}
::

::callout{icon="i-ri-error-warning-line" color="amber"}
Unlike per-language translation, this translation process **is not reversible** in the Panel and is handled server-side. Use it with caution, as it may take a while to translate all content.
::

The button is only enabled when the default language content is active in the Panel. When the button is clicked, a confirmation dialog is displayed to prevent accidental bulk translation:

::preview-dialog{src="/img/kirby-content-translator-section-dialog-bulk-translation.png"}
::

For security reasons, the confirmation modal cannot be disabled with the [`confirm`](#confirm) property.

If you want to _disable_ bulk translation for multiple languages at once, you can set the `bulk` property to `false`. This will hide the bulk translation button in the section:

```yaml [sections/content-translator.yml]
type: content-translator
bulk: false
```

::preview{src="/img/kirby-content-translator-section-bulk-disabled.png"}
::

### `title` :u-badge{label="Boolean" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

You can enable to import and translate the title of a model by setting the `title` section property to `true`:

```yaml [sections/content-translator.yml]
type: content-translator
title: true
```

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
Technically speaking, the title is not part of the content history of a Kirby model. That's why you can't revert unsaved changes made to the title, as opposed to fields. Copying or translating the title will overwrite the existing title without the possibility to undo the changes. Because of these caveats, have to opt-in to import and translate the title.
::

### `slug` :u-badge{label="Boolean" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

Similar to the `title` property, you can enable to import and translate the slug of a model by setting the `slug` section property to `true`. This will change the slug of the model to the slugified translation of the translated title.

```yaml [sections/content-translator.yml]
type: content-translator
slug: true
```

### `confirm` :u-badge{label="Boolean" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

To make sure an editor does not accidentally import or translate content and thus overwrite existing translations, a confirmation dialog is displayed before the process is started. If you want to skip this dialog, you can set the `confirm` key to `false`:

```yaml [sections/content-translator.yml]
type: content-translator
confirm: false
```

## Global Configuration

Instead of defining the configuration in every blueprint, you can also define global defaults in your config file. This is especially useful if, for example, every page's blocks should be translated the same way.

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
Local blueprint configurations will always override global defaults.
::

```php [config.php]
return [
    'johannschopplich.content-translator' => [
        'fieldTypes' => [
            'blocks',
            'text',
            'textarea'
        ],
        'title' => true,
        'slug' => true,
        'confirm' => false
    ]
]
```

### Custom Translator Function

Instead of using the DeepL API, you can define a custom translator callback that accepts the text to be translated, the source language code and the target language code. The plugin expects a string to be returned.

```php [config.php]
return [
    'johannschopplich.content-translator' => [
        'translateFn' => function (string $text, string $toLanguageCode, string|null $fromLanguageCode = null): string {
            // Your custom translation logic
            return myCustomTranslateFunction($text, $toLanguageCode, $fromLanguageCode);
        }
    ]
];
```

#### Mapping Language Codes

In certain cases, a language code defined in Kirby might not match the language code expected by the translation service. You can map language codes in the custom translator function:

```php [config.php]
return [
    'johannschopplich.content-translator' => [
        'translateFn' => function (string $text, string $toLanguageCode, string|null $fromLanguageCode = null): string {
            // Map `cz` to `cs` for DeepL
            if ($targetLanguage === 'cz') {
                $targetLanguage = 'cs';
            }

            $deepL = new DeepL();
            return $deepL->translate($text, $targetLanguage, $sourceLanguage);
        }
    ]
];
```

## Overwriting Label Translations

If you prefer to overwrite the default translations of the plugin, you can do so by adding translations for your language in the `languages` directory of your Kirby installation.

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
See the plugin's [`translations.php`](https://github.com/kirby-tools/kirby-content-translator/blob/main/src/extensions/translations.php) for the full list of translation keys.
::

For example, to change the translation of the import button to `Synchronize` in English, append the following `translations` array to the `languages/en.php` file:

```php [languages/en.php]
return [
    'code' => 'en',
    'name' => 'English',
    // ... Other language configuration
    'translations' => [
        'johannschopplich.content-translator.import' => 'Synchronize'
    ]
];
```
